- condition like Queenstown's Gorbachev
- Annh? He is a realized soul.
He's born a realized soul. It's a, it's a state of mind which is spiritual
and where your spirit is in your attention. So in that light you see wisdom.
You're compassioned and you're very sensible and dynamic
and you do not [UNCLEAR - DETER?] for using it. Apart from that
it gives you a great concern for the masses and you don't mind rectifying anything that is wrong
and also you feel very,
- I should say, powerful - the power of love.
- Right. Do You think Gorbachev
- has all these qualities?
- I think, he has many.
I'm going to meet him this time when I go there. I mean, I've been missing him and he's been missing Me - it's like that but
he has seen the point quite alright that this kind of an extreme
regimentation of communism he doesn't help. Also he sees the point, what's wrong with democracy
so he doesn't want to go to that extent of democratic life like America is, where it's complete abandonment and
they have got so many problems because of this kind of freedom which is just licence.
So he's a biased person and he's very righteous in his own character, everything, extremely righteous man.
Like a, you see, I should say that, Socrates says, described that, "We should have benevolent kings," you see.
So he believes in benevolence and the way how he has uh.. crossed all these hurdles one by one,
-  is very surprising.
- Hmm and he's probably changed the world more than any other person.
- Yes, he's so courageous.
- In his generation.
- He's very courageous and whenever I go to Russia -
I mean, you'll be amazed to know that there are 16000, 14000 people - we always take a stadium
and I always talk about him. Nobody objected to what I said about him.
He has that leadership in him but is for the world to understand
how we have to change ourselves and come to some middle point - not to go to extremes of anything.
He also is very spiritual - very spiritual man and he arranged lots of yoga seminars there,
he called lots of people from outside, everything but it so happened that when I was there, he was not there sometimes.
- You will see him next time.
- Yeah, of course.
What do You, how do You judge somebody's spiritual, whether they're very spiritual or not?
- Is it a feeling You get or?
- No, you see, everybody has Divinity within themselves. Everybody is spiritual
but only thing is that when you get connected to that All-Pervading power
then you start emitting cool vibrations from your being which can be felt on your Central Nervous system.
- Yeah.
- You can feel on your
- finger-tips.
- finger-tips but for Me I can just feel it as it is.
- Can You feel from other people?
- Yeah, yes, just like that. You see, as soon as I saw
Gorbachev on the television, I said, "We've done it now."
So you have to have uh.. that kind of sensitivity, just to judge it
but otherwise all of them can judge it. If they ask just a question, "Is Gorbachev a realized soul?" it works.
- Really?
- Yeah. You can ask the question and they get the cool breeze in their hands.
- My! Okay.
- Because you get the Absolute answers because you, Spirit is the Absolute -
it gives you Absolute; All of them will feel the same way about a person.
and I think, now in the world there is an awakening going on that we should take to Spiritual life - everywhere.
But I was surprised that in Russia, where they never talked of God, never talked of religion,
how people are so clean! Because they have no conditionings. You see, we have conditionings of this religion and this and that
and they have deviated from right paths - they have deviated. They are not on the right paths, you see. Whatever was preached by their
Incarnations or say, prophets or anyone - they didn't carry on that.
Is it because they had some sort of religious innocence because they haven't had - religion wasn't legal?
- [UNCLEAR]
- You see, it is because it went into the hands of people who are really not authorised.
Christ has said that, "You're to be born again," that means something has to happen to you.
But they did not try that. You see, they just
started, "Alright, we'll organize now." Without having that connection how can you do it?
- My! Have You, have You met the Queen?
- Yeah, of course I've met her.
- Yeah. How did You feel who was spiritual?
She's a very sweet person, extremely sweet, very humble, very sweet, nice person
and she has tendencies towards Spirituality, no doubt
and I'm going to meet now Prince of Wales when I'm going to England. He wants to meet Me for some purpose.
Then I'll see if he comes to sahaja yoga. She's a very open-minded lady, extremely open-minded.
and she has respect, a very sweet person.
Right! Other members of Your family are there any restrictions [UNCLEAR - STAND OFFICE?]
- uh.. being Your Spiritual people
- Even the, this gentleman from New Zealand
Cowley, he was quite spiritual but I don't know
he fell into some sort of a social problem -
- of conscience problem something - he's also another one.
- Is he? Right.
- Yes. Even our Rajiv Gandhi is but he also feel a trap into wrong advice, perhaps -
he's also a realized soul. Even the uh..
head of the new party that's coming up, he's also a realized soul.
- So many are coming up like that, I don't know how.
- Hmm!
- Have You met our Bob Hawk?
- I haven't met him as yet.
- Yeah. Have You met any of the australian politicians?
- Not of that level.
- No
- All those who came in My husband's office, mostly shipping people
Western shipping, they're changing so fast - you know - by the time I come here, they're changed.
- [LAUGHTER] And they will be the time you come next time too.
You can't just locate them. I want to meet - they're changed.
- I can believe that. And what about American Presidents? Do any stand out in Your
- Abraham Lincoln, of course.
He was great, no doubt, very great.
Lenin was also, you'll be surprised, was a realized soul but they dragged him into party and they also
What he said was, "We should achieve at stateless state," that's absolutely what we are doing - stateless state. People should be
just angelic - doesn't become like that, you have to be that state.
Even I feel, the most of her laws are for angels, not for ordinary persons.
- And you worked, when you were young, with Gandhi.
- Yes, I did.
- What was he like?
- He's wonderful person.
He was so concerned about people, concerned about our country, for its Independence - a very Spiritual personality
and he knew Me what I was and he consulted Me at a very young age about his bhajans, you see, the
hymns, how to write, in what series he should write.
But very disciplined fellow, very extremely disciplined and he wanted everybody to be very disciplined and
he said, "We have to win the freedom and for that we have to be disciplined." And he said, "First thing first. First
we must have our freedom. Without freedom, what is Spirituality of a slave."
So, if he was living, he would have definitely worked with us but [UNCLEAR]
- And this Mister
- Do you have questions?
- Till I am doing with her,
- I have to think of s ome more
- you see.
- Martin Luther King
- Yeah, beautiful!
- He was a realized soul.
- Was he?
- Yeah, he was also a realized soul. Tremendous person.
The thing with, with realized souls in politics, Shree Mataji, You often said is this, that they have the vision that unrealized people don't.
Lenin had the vision of collectivity, Martin Luther King had the vision of saving the soul of humanity
irreceptive races, but its this vision we get through realization - isn't it?
Yes, of course, I mean, they have not only vision but they have the Absolute Truth with them and they are so wedded to it
- innately they get wedded to  the Truth. Said, they will not do all these nonsensical things that politicians are doing because
they're not insecured, they're not counting their merits what position they occupy
so they're not bothered about this maintaining the position - they'll be there, in any case, whatever one may try.
And their apart from the collective vision, you see, they can penetrate
into problems much better than anybody else can because they see the problems from a detached mind;
- They're not involved into it so they can solve it much better.
- Right.
- You've met, You've met the pope, didn't You?
- I did.
- The recent pope, the last one?
- The last one.
- The last one? Right.
- I met him because we had gone to Poland
and I said, "I would like to see some churches," because I'm fond of architecture so they sent Me to Krakow where he was there
and they held a mass for Me because I was supposed to be VIP and all that and then after that we had tea together. We're sitting, I raised his Kundalini and all that.
It came up, it worked out but again it settled back. He asked Me about India, this, that but nothing about Spirituality.
So sometimes it again comes up, goes down. Then I wrote a letter to one of the boys
that, "I met a gentleman, a cardinal there and I saw the black Mary, because I was there in September and very bad
- time that September was when the 1st of September WARSAW was bombed.
- Ah, yes, right.
So while going to Warsaw I felt extremely sad and I said, "Why I feel so sad here?"
My husband said, "Why are You looking sad?" I said, "Never I feel that sad as I'm feeling now."
Then we got down we found out that it was the day that it was bombed. And 8th of September is the
birth of Mother Mary so they have a black Madonna. They take out a procession - I saw that also and that's the time I met
this pope. Then this gentleman whom I had written this letter, because he was also born on 8th of September, so I had just written to him.
- He said that, "Do You know, the same gentleman now has become the pope?"
- Interesting.
- Do birth dates have a special
- Yes, of course, it's quite a lot.
Birthday is very significant about
anyone but specially for people who are spiritual, very significant
They're born at a time when certain stars are there and there's some truth in it.
- They have predicted about Me quite a lot and it'll see now
- We heard that the other day Shree Mataji
- They did
- Yes [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR] things, annh?
- Let us see it works out.
- What have they predicted?
I mean, that sahaja yoga will spread such a lot and people will be
changed and transformation will take place and that even politics will take over sahaja yoga and all that - quite a lot, I mean.
- [UNCLEAR - CHHETI?] I'll give you a copy of that
- and this man who has done it he's not a sahaja yogi and he himself is now surrendered
because when he saw My horoscope. There are horoscopes and horoscopes. There's one predicted with somebody who -
what was the - Krishnamurthy and according to him they calculated something. Now he's this one, R.V. Raman
who is a very well-known uh.. astrologer - he's no more.
According to his astrology, this gentleman, Mr. Bhandari - he's also well-known - has predicted all these things.
'Sahaja yoga will become the, the principal belief system of the world
- Yeah, that's what he said.
- In certain stages.' 1996 was a very big stage.
- Yeah.
I think, 1993 is also important as I'll be 70 years of age that time.
- Two years more.
- I wouldn't admit that sort of thing.
- [LAUGHTER] Shree Mataji doesn't look it though.
I don't know anything about it, it's just like that is, I don't know.
- But, when You started this In 1970 You decided that You wanted to
- help enlighten, perhaps or teach.
- No, this was actually from My very childhood I knew I had to do this work
- Did You?
- because formerly, you see, it was the
tradition that only one master will have one disciple
but in the 12th century there was one great saint in India called as Gyaneshwara.
He took permission from his guru - his brother himself was the guru - that, "You just allow me to write about it openly
because everybody's said about it but nobody's said how it will work out so why not let me, at least, write something about it."
So he was the first who wrote it in a book called 'Gyaneshwari', which is actually a book on Gita.
In that he wrote in the sixth chapter that, "There is a power like this which will rise and which will give Self-realization and things like that."
This was written in many Sanskrit books long time back. It's 14000 years back Markandaya wrote, I mean, so it's a very old
theme, worked out by very few people but in our own
language like Marathi or Hindi which we speak, it was not available.
So he's the first one who told to the masses about this and it had to be worked out in such a way to be proved.
So, when I was born I knew this was My own mission.
My father also knew; He was also a realized soul,
so he told Me that, "Don't talk about religion, don't talk about anything, just now You find out how to give realization
to masses, not one but to masses." So then, I used to -
"So they, they also can do it, enter into Your being, You see what's wrong with You, what's wrong with him, what's wrong." So then I worked out.
Till 47 years of age I was busy finding out. Then I worked it out what is the permutation and combination is.
Now the last center was not opened, all of them were open. Kundalini, I could do it, with that the last was to be opened out.
That I did on the 5th May, 1970, early in the morning.
That time I saw this horrible Rajneesh, you see, mesmerising people. By chance I was there just to see what is here.
When I saw that, you see, just I thought better start it now. So first I gave realization to only one lady,
then to one gentleman and then twelve people got realization. That's how slowly it started.
Gosh! and how many people would have received realization now? What do you think, in the world
- how many would there be?
- I don't know. At least tens of thousands, pushing a hundred thousand -
- maybe more than a hundred thousand - God knows
- Bad at accounts.
Can't just say because this is sahaja yoga is not a communication, it's not an organization -
it is how way you practice it - you just can't say how many practice it.
This, this ability, I've never heard about it that You talk, to look into people and find out what's wrong with them; I mean, You can do this.
- Well, all of them can do.
- All of us can do. We can read the chakras on our hands
- On their hands they can
- The sensations we get.....
- That's what is Collective Consciousness which Yung has talked about - you must have heard about Yung.
- Yeah
-  Hume has talked about it
- That's same thing, same thing that you develop that new awareness, a new dimension
- in your awareness on your Central Nervous System
- When You're going to Beta uh.. how many people get into Beta
- waves they can do this - is that alright?
- Yes. We've had some studies done recently Shree Mataji
that article, we've got copies in the paper - in fact its included in that package we've got,
that the symptomatic of the steady meditation state is the vastly increasaed Beta emanation.
and there is other things that go on with it.
- Essentially what happens is that when the Kundalini is raised you are then in meditation
- Well
and how much you develop that and how much you learn to use that awareness, is then up to you. So that's kind of two questions
as who has had their Kundalini raised, which could be hundreds of thousands of people by now and they could have done nothing more with it
that is surprised more in number than actually stuck to it. They meditate everyday, learnt how to use their
finger chakra monitoring system and actually increase their sensitivity to the extent that they're now vibrationally aware
in everyday. This is what Shree Mataji teaches us to work on very much to
develop our awareness so that we can perceive things through vibrations principally rather than through other means
It works both ways - you see, we have to feel our depth so like a tree has to grow outward, the same way when you start working on others
you start moving outwards and depth starts increasing and once you
touch your Divinity within you, then you're there - no problem.
- Yeah, right. [LAUGHTER]
- I'm only sorry that I'm meeting her after such a long time.
I've been here many a times, you see and I wish we could have met earlier we would have done such a lot for Australia.
- Hopefully it can happen now.
- Huh?
- We hope it can happen now.
- It should. I mean, first of all there were so many horrible gurus here; You had so many horrible people working.
Even now, I think, there are some already at it.
One thing you must tell them that you cannot pay for your ascent. It's a
living process of a living energy of evolution
and you can't pay for that. Now, you may pay for a house or for a
aeroplane tickets, that's different but you can't pay for this.
What stage would You feel that You've achieved Your goal? Will it be when,
when how many people are received realization?
With that in two stages we move. First stage is we call as thoughtless awareness
where you can silence your thoughts and you can watch, just watch - that's you are in the present now,
neither in the past nor in the future. Then this state develops into another state, what you call as, doubtless awareness -
then you have no doubts about [UNCLEAR], no problems
and you yourself know that this is so; The certificate comes from you, from no body else.
Everybody has improved like that, everybody; Even Jason, ask him, he will also tell you the same.
I wonder whether I, this is a very hypnotic way, isn't it? [LAUGHTER]
Yes, yes, it's a very nice hypnotism [LAUGHTER]
So, in hypnosis, you see, you actually put some sort of a spirit in the person.
There's no modus operandi - you don't know how it has happened but in sahaja yoga you know each and everything;
How the Kundalini rises, where is the Kundalini, how to raise it, what's the problem of a particular person.
It's the Parasympathetic Nervous System which you nourish about which doctors don't know anything.
So, if you talk to a doctor will understand or an engineer will understand that this is complete engineering.
So the modus operandi is completely explained and proved.
It's not just talking, it's proved. Now supposing, some people say there's no God.
Alright, doesn't matter - raise their Kundalini. Ask a question, "Is there God?" - finished.
Then the cool breeze says yes. But supposing, there's a cheat and you say, "Is he Godly?"
Immediately you might feel hot, sometimes you get a blister with such a person.
Relatively you should see. Supposing, there's a cancer patient. I put My hands towards a cancer patient - immediately you'll feel the heat of the cancer patient.
That's how you can find out what's wrong with this person, what's wrong with another person.
Now only thing, if you know how to correct those centers, person is cured.
- If you know how to
- correct those subtle centers
- Right
- which are indicated on your finger-tips
- Right.
- then if you know how to do that through the awakening of the Kundalini, then you cure that person.
There are things, ways in which we can work on each chakra to clear out dead energy, that may be blocking the chakra and to get it into working again
- and the state of the chakra is the origin of disease or health
- hmm
- [UNCLEAR] so we can work on the chakras and [UNCLEAR]
So now for hypnosis, supposing I hypnotize him, supposing,  he won't be able to tell you what it is about.
He will not have any knowledge about it and it's such a subtle knowledge but you ask any sahaja yogi, they all know about it.
They know how to work it out, they know how to give awakening, they know how to cure, they know everything.
Such a subtle subject has become so easy for them
because they have that light, I can say, and that
understanding, that feeling by which they can judge it.
- Can I, can I ask Your followers, You
- Annh?
- what difference it's made to their life? Do they..
- Yes, please ask.
- Can you tell me what difference it made to your life?
- Oh, its really trasformed it
- How's it transformed it
Basically, uh, I was very, very... very aggressive and uh,
I'm trying to use words to you, not sahajayoga words
Very greedy, very rough, harsh
Lots of things like that, and that's balanced a lot more than I was then.
And uh, also I was known to suffer from myositis [unclear]
Nerve, tendons between all the muscles [unclear]
and thats all gone, and I used to have a chiropractor every week, sometimes twice a week and I had for about 11 years.
-just totally in good health, you know, and I hadn't been sick, apart from a cold [unclear]
and people used to say to me, Pauline you haven't got a cold and I'd have one by the end of the night sorta thing, you know?
but now I haven't had, just cold, I'd get slightly ill, and then you just get it very mild
version don't you
[Waterson?]
-Well, me, it wasn't so much physical, it was um,
it was more, my marriage was on the rocks and I wa s heading downhill fast
or meant to I think, and just after recieving kundalini awakening it was a logical step
that this was the way to change direction.
I was actually divorced but then my wife came into sahajayoga, we remaried.
-  He's remarried.
- Well thats different
- Yeah
because children were in trouble, you see - they had children
It got the marriage back straight, and I could see it was the way to go and through, as Jason was saying, with vibrations
It was clear there was a right way and a wrong way to approach it, a whole lifestyle
So you have two children to start with and
since he's had another two wit h the second marriage and now he's got four children.
- Right!
- And is that how many years apart?
-12
-12 years difference
- Jason, what has it done for you?
- It was pretty spectacular, I was a functioning alcoholic,
slowly, well not very slowly, ceasing to function, I would say I was pretty neurotic,
I believed that politics was a valid way to approach life for one thing - was a fairly neurotic belief.
Umm, I don't believe it now [SHREE MATAJI LAUGHS]
- and
- very hot-tempered he is.
- very hot-tempered - I was hot-tempered, that's true and
almost got rid of it now - touch wood - there's only plastic here to touch - and all told, I gave up alcohol and tobacco
the first day, I gave up politics a few months thereafter - I needed it a little bit of persuading
and over eleven  years, I suppose about,
5 - 8 % as hot-tempered as I was - I'm still a little bit there but I mean, the transformation, you can ask anybody else if you don't ask me.
I feel that I am now lot more peaceful,
I'm working lot better. Since I got realization I went to university, I got a degree uh..
had two changes of career now starting to succeed as a writer and broadcaster. My intelligence is working immeasurably better,
I'm emotionally a lot happier. I mean, those are the kind of ordinary human things that are difficult to quantify, probably inside
I know that the improvement is several thousand percent. And I know perfectly well that it couldnt have come about getting realization without
following the teachings of Shree Mataji, without letting Her look after me, through
just doing what She says, doing what She advises, it's slower that frequently
but nonetheless, despite me being slow in following Shree Mataji's advices, still works which shows that the Kundalini
is tremendously powerful, easily even overcomes the resistance of people with a lot of conditioning, a lot of ego and a lot of bad temper.
- So, I mean, for me there is...
- But also how many of your friends in Brighton, I mean, just imagine, they were gone cases absolutely
- drug cocktails.
- hippies and all kinds of people from Brighton came in
- ruined, completely ruined brain
- oh my, absolutely recluses, you can call them, recluses
- Yes
- Paul Winter, just imagine, now he's one of the very rich persons there and
he's doing very well there, he discovered somethings and I mean, you can't believe. And some people were from
Oxford and Cambridge and London School of Economics - very highly educated - all into drugs.
It was just a fashion - all into drugs - and they had become like cabbages. I tell you once when they came to Me
some of them said they couldn't even see Me. They saw some sort of light, this, that and all of them
- are absolutely alright and doing very well
- [UNCLEAR] good one!
- so many of them.
- and they just
- alcoholics
- they stop alcohol, drugs, smoking, I mean, all these things, the easy things just one minute
[UNCLEAR] inside just drops away [UNCLEAR]
Real idea is just to do that
[UNCLEAR] this is an enormous growth. I mean, think of all the millions of dollars have been spent on trying to give up smoking
No, there is one Dr. Wells, you see, who was an alcoholic and also drug addiction but not so much as alcoholism
and such a qualified man just wasted and Rustom brought him to Me. Another doctor he's head of the
Psychiatry department in Amaan - he brought him to Me and I looked at him and I said, "Now look at this man
such a educated, such a good person just lost." Out of frustration in his family and this and that he took to drugs.
And when he became alright - now today he is in charge of seven hospitals in London.
- He is business expert on addiction therapy
- And he's working on that.
- And I told him,"What do you do?" He said, "I come home and give them bandhans, that's all." [SHREE MATAJI LAUGHS]
He's curing people so everybody has tremendous respect for him
- because you cannot cure people but he works out sahaja yoga.
- It's interesting.Have you had a...?
Well I, was working as a Job Assistant in [UNCLEAR] stress [UNCLEAR]
and I had my realization [UNCLEAR]
and I used to go [UNCLEAR] every night [UNCLEAR]
[UNCLEAR] was very nice I was just there on [UNCLEAR]
- How would you [UNCLEAR]?
- I don't know I'm too [UNCLEAR] what's wrong
- And also you must mention how you love each other - that's very important. But we have people from, say,
this time we had people from 56 nations for our seminar in India
and the way they love each other, I mean, we never have a problem, never. They love each other, they look after each other.
I mean, like universal brotherhood has been established. To see that I felt so very happy.
We had Russians, we had Bulgarians, Romanians, uh.. we had people from East Germany,
also from Hungary, Czechoslovakia - all this Western Bloc had also come
plus we had people from all over like Columbia and I mean, all the rest of it and the South
American group and the North American group - like that fifty-six nations and
- Just an [UNCLEAR]
- Yes. My husband says he works for the United Nations and he said, "I can't think of any, any
organization like this. I cannot think - there's no problem, there's no argument,
nothing - just enjoying each other."
- Have you had an experience?
- Yes, I can't say I was an extreme of anything
except exquisitely I have just prior to discovering sahaja yoga
had a prolapse disc which turned out to be a thing of long standing and when I;
Actually, when Shree Mataji first came to Australia, I was in hospital because
they [UNCLEAR] and all sorts of things to me and that
I was faced with having to wear a belt around me and a catapult
on my leg and also a thing on my shoe to keep my foot straight and after
about nine months
I, sort of, followed my doctor to see what my progress is [UNCLEAR] , "You're not going to get very much better."
He said, "You know with [UNCLEAR] we can but this has been going on for 20 years and
nerves are a lot of damage done, you've lost a lot of nerve function."
And so there I was there with all these things - I had a stick as well and
in the meantime before this meeting with the doctor, I had discovered sahaja yoga
and this healing process, no doubt whatever, this is what was happening.
Uh.. through the practices of sahaja yoga just continued. I was way past the period where
my healing should have cut off. Till now, I haven't got any adverse things. I can walk reasonably well - I cannot run very well.
Uh.. I'm not too good at dancing forever [LAUGHTER] Apart from that it's, it's
- it's virtually disappeared.
- Can this be put down to power of positive thinking too much degree?
- Positive thinking is a mental process. Mental process can only develop your ego
- It cannot help you much because if you think positively - well, according to us we go to the right side
-
and the left side is neglected, which is emotions and such a person can become very dry because you can rationalize anything.
The balance is not there but in sahaja yoga actually,
not that you achieve balance but also complete nourishment from the Divine force.
- You're actually getting an extra energy
- All the time
- [UNCLEAR] all the time
- Yeah.
It's not only physical energy; It's physical, mental, emotional and specially spiritual and you are always joyous,
always joyous and very happy person. Children are very happy
they become very intelligent as well as very compassionate.
It's very different world you enter into because it's all within you - you have to just touch that Divinity.
Hmm, well. I cannot think anything else to ask You.
[LAUGHTER]
- She's [UNCLEAR] to someone else. [SHREE MATAJI LAUGHS] Yeah.
- You can't think, that's one of the effects of thoughtlessness.
- Thoughtlessness. It's thoughtlessness - no thought.
- Maybe that's no more work left.
- It's very normal. [UNCLEAR -THERE'S NO THOUGHT?] if you want you can think, otherwise you won't.
Otherwise you are bombarded by these thoughts, you don't want to have them; They go on haunting - now you are free.
- Now I am free.
- Annh.
- Wait a sec - free to watch. Free to what?
Free to think in every way. You see, once you get your realization, nothing is important
than your being so that you don't take to any drugs; Become so powerful - nothing can touch you,
nothing can dominate you - no habit - nothing.
- So even I'm not going to get the [UNCLEAR]
[SHREE MATAJI LAUGHS]
- It's up to you. [LAUGHTER]
- You've free choice, complete free choice.
- You see, in sahaja yoga it's complete free choice. Animals have no choice;
Human-beings have been given freedom to choose. Now by trial and error method they learn
but still they cannot go very far. But once you get realization, the light shows them that it's wrong and you, they just don't do it.
It's a simple - always I give them a analogy of a snake. Supposing, it is darkness and you are holding on to a snake
and somebody tells you, "Oh, there's a snake, snake,"  but you won't give up. You'll say, "No, it's a rope." In the darkness you can't argue
till the snake bites you and then suddenly when you see a little flicker of light, you just drop it yourself.
- So, I don't tell them, "Don't do this, don't do that." It just happens by themselves.
- Right.
- You become your own guide, you become your own guru - I don't have to tell you anything.
You see yourself, what is benevolent for you, what is joyous for you, what is good for you.
Everything you see yourself because it's all within yourself.
Only like one light which is enlightened, one candle which is enlightened, can enlighten another light - that's all.
But there's no uh.. nothing that has been done in such a way that you should feel obliged or nothing of the kind;
It's just one light which is enlightened gives light to another.
- Thank You very much. [UNCLEAR]
- May God bless you!
- Thanks
- Can I take a couple of pictures of You with my beginner's cameras? [UNCLEAR] He's got terrific ones.
- Yes, please do, please do.
- Please do. There's already continuous [SHREE MATAJI LAUGHS]
Straighten out your cameras so that the pictures are a little bit clear [UNCLEAR] and it's just much embarrassing.
-  Can I help?
- Trying to work like My husband.
I'm hopelessly bad, I mean, I've never had a camera all My life.
[UNCLEAR] It is very [UNCLEAR] It does everything automatically so I can't [UNCLEAR] it.
- This automatics is what?
- Yeah, automatic everything - thank goodness.
- Just automatic, just like this itself
-  I know [UNCLEAR - THIS ONE?]
- I'm sorry about that
- I know this one very well - it's very good.
- It's magic!
- Thank you, thank you very much.
- Shree Mataji, would You like some water?
- Thank you. What about the lady - she may like too also.
- Would you like, would you have some water?
- Ahhh..
- Please have
- Thank you, thank you very much.
- [UNCLEAR]
- Do you think if we can make it to the terminal tomorrow morning, that'll be very much, I mean
- It depends whether what time do we work-wise
- But only thing it should be announcement must be kept
- wherever we are having the programs, so if you can give it in writing properly
- Yes, Mother.
- because it happened sometimes that we didn't give them and there was a confusion.
- Alright
I'm getting prepared for the recording. [SHREE MATAJI LAUGHS]
Let him [UNCLEAR]
Oh, I wish Your trip is very successful; Australian trip is very successful.
Thank you very much. Successful Australia for you.
Australians really need it very much now - so many problems they have
and I feel very concerned and so many are coming.
I don't know - they should be alerted at least.
like AIDS and all these things [UNCLEAR]
- They must be awakened
- [UNCLEAR] better try
- Beg your pardon.
- Looks like Yourself have been trying and you get to do that
- I'm trying that [UNCLEAR] on My....
[UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
- [UNCLEAR] very good for you.
- Is it?
- Try, try
- I'll try
- It changes the molecular structure of the water and everything
- Yes you can stay
- Once the attention's been vibrated it
- You see, [UNCLEAR]
- Inner feelings [UNCLEAR]
- Once there was a gentleman called he's quite a fan here [UNCLEAR]
-
and he said, "First You give me realization, then only [UNCLEAR] alright. Then I got some water and vibrated it.
I said, "Have it." He said, "Is it wine?" I said, "No, it's water." [LAUGHTER]
He's such a good sahaja yogi today. Lots of fans are here - Mr. Romanos
That's very special water! I'm sure you [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
Awesome [UNCLEAR]
- I'm going to come and see what happens.
- I'll see.
- [UNCLEAR]
Do you need only for the questions or the other number [UNCLEAR]
There're so many other thing but you can tell her later on. Gradually she'll know the inside and out - you know how miraculous it is the time now.
We have not explored this area, is the point - we cannot. This is the knowledge of the roots
- We have the knowledge of the tree and if  we don't have the knowledge of the roots the whole thing is [UNCLEAR - WASTED?]
- There're [UNCLEAR] books written now about Beta waves
- Horrible! They have written all nonsense,
absolutely nonsense, without any authority, without any understanding. It's a, you see,
God is such a subject, Divine is such a subject - any body can write
- Even Hitler can write, even Saddam can write, I mean
- Right - they have.
- They have. You see, how can we
stop them - only thing the way they are punished.
- Nice, everyone, thanks to you.
- Thank you.
- Thank You!
- Very nice meeting you. Thank you very much
- Okay. Have a nice time in Brisbane.
- Thank you, thank you.